Release notes aggregated 3.27.2 LTS -> 3.33.3 LTS (#2155)
quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/release-notes/3.33.3-aggregated.adoc

* `xref:reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-vertx-keep-alive-timeout[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".vertx.keep-alive-timeout]`
* `xref:reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-vertx-http2-keep-alive-timeout[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".vertx.http2-keep-alive-timeout]`

=== https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf/issues/1943[#1943] Configure HTTP or SOCKS proxies via Quarkus Proxy Registry

Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.31.0, CXF clients can use proxy settings defined via `quarkus.proxy.*` options.

Refer to the following resources for more details:

* https://quarkus.io/guides/proxy-registry[Quarkus Proxy registry guide]
* Documentation of the new `xref:reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-proxy-configuration-name[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".proxy-configuration-name]` configuration option

=== https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf/issues/2064[#2064] `QuarkusCxfTestUtil` - a new utility for testing {quarkus-cxf-project-name}

`QuarkusCxfTestUtil` offers static methods to create a SOAP client for testing.

> This is handy especially in native mode tests (having `@io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusIntegrationTest` annotation),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful in native mode tests (having `@io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusIntegrationTest` annotation),
```

where injecting http://localhost:8080/quarkus-cxf/dev/user-guide/first-soap-client.html#_using_sei_as_a_client[client beans]
to test classes is not possible.

`QuarkusCxfTestUtil` is hosted by a new artifact `io.quarkiverse.cxf:quarkus-cxf-test-util`
that is managed in `quarkus-cxf-bom`.

> Here is an example `QuarkusCxfTestUtil` usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example `QuarkusCxfTestUtil` usage:
```

[source,java]
----
import io.quarkiverse.cxf.test.QuarkusCxfTestUtil;
import org.assertj.core.api.Assertions;
...
HelloService helloClient = QuarkusCxfTestUtil.getClient(
        "https://acme.org/hello", // the target namespace of HelloService
                                  // can be omitted if HelloService class
                                  // is annotated with @WebService(targetNamespace="...")
        HelloService.class, // the service endpoint interface (SEI)
        "/services/hello" // the path to append to base URL on which Quarkus test instance is listening
    );

Assertions.assertThat(helloClient.hello("Dolly"))
        .isEqualTo("Hello Dolly!");
----

=== https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf/issues/2058[#2058] Java 25 support

> Java 25 is now tested and officially supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Java 25 is now supported.
```

Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.31.0, the CXF code referencing Spring classes is eliminated at build time using bytecode transformation.

=== Start measuring receive timeout after the HTTP connection is ready

Before {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.0, when using the default `VertxHttpClientHTTPConduit`,
the measurement of the receive timeout defined via
`xref:/reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-receive-timeout[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".receive-timeout]`
started when the request was queued for a free connection.
As a consequence of that, the receive time span may have overlapped the connect time span
and receive timeouts may have come earlier than expected.

Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.0, the receive timeout is measured starting from
when the HTTP connection is ready, rather than from when the request is created
and queued for a free connection.
This provides more accurate receive timeout behavior.

=== https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf/issues/2060[#2060] Avoid using `HttpClientHTTPConduit` even for clients created via `jakarta.xml.ws.Service.create(URL, QName).getPort(MyService.class)`

> `HttpClientHTTPConduit` provided by CXF has had known issues, due to which we deprecated the `HttpClientHTTPConduitFactory` value of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HttpClientHTTPConduit` provided by CXF has had known issues, so we deprecated the `HttpClientHTTPConduitFactory` value of
```

via {quarkus-cxf-project-name} `application.properties` configuration that would use `HttpClientHTTPConduit` and JDK HTTP Client under the hood.

However, even after {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.22.0 it was still possible to programmatically create SOAP clients using `HttpClientHTTPConduit` as follows:

[source,java]
----
URL serviceUrl = ...;
QName qName = ...
Service service = Service.create(serviceUrl, qName);
MyService myClient = service.getPort(MyService.class);
----

We used this code ourselves in our integration tests.
The same code is used by `QuarkusCxfTestUtil.getClient(...)` methods that we exposed for public usage in
xref:release-notes/3.33.0.adoc#_2064_quarkuscxftestutil_a_new_utility_for_testing_quarkus_cxf[{quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.0].

The issue https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-cxf/issues/2060[#2060] popped up in our MTOM integration test,
which spawns many SOAP clients to perform some soak testing.
When the number of clients went over certain threshold, the clients started failing due to underlying HTTP connections being closed.
This is another known issue of JDK HTTP client: no external control over its internal connection pool is possible.

> Therefore it may happen that the connections get closed while SOAP clients, possibly running in parallel threads still use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections may get closed while SOAP clients still use them, possibly running in parallel threads.
```

As a consequence of that, no issues with connection pooling should occur.

=== `IllegalFormatConversionException` in a debug log statement in `CxfMutinyUtils`

Before {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.2, a debug log statement in `CxfMutinyUtils` used a `%d` format to log
a non-number object, which could cause a `java.util.IllegalFormatConversionException` at runtime.
Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.2, the correct `%s` format specifier is used.

=== Stop warning about non-loadable CXF Bus extensions at build time

Before {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.2, non-loadable CXF Bus extensions were logged at `WARN` level at build time.
The `WARN` level is not appropriate, because some missing classes are expected at build time,
due to exclusion of some transitive dependencies from CXF.
Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.33.2, those messages are logged at `DEBUG` level.

== Deprecations

=== Old proxy configuration options deprecated

Since {quarkus-cxf-project-name} 3.31.0,
CXF clients can use proxy settings defined via `quarkus.proxy.*` options or refer to those via

> new `xref:reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-proxy-configuration-name[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".proxy-configuration-name]` configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the option `xref:reference/extensions/quarkus-cxf.adoc#quarkus-cxf_quarkus-cxf-client-client-name-proxy-configuration-name[quarkus.cxf.client."client-name".proxy-configuration-name]`.
```
